Adds docs for TypeGuard type, #10591 (#10758)
python/mypy: docs/source/casts.rst

    x.whatever()  # Type check error
    y = cast(Any, x)
    y.whatever()  # Type check OK (runtime error)

User-Defined Type Guards
************************

> MyPy supports User-Defined Type Guards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mypy supports User-Defined Type Guards
```

> (`PEP-647 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0647/>`_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(:pep:`647`).
```

> What's a type guard?
> It is a way for programs to influence conditional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A type guard is a way for programs to influence conditional
```

type narrowing employed by a type checker based on runtime checks.

Basically, a ``TypeGuard`` is a "smart" alias for a ``bool`` type.
Let's have a look at the regular ``bool`` example:

.. code-block:: python

  from typing import List

  def is_str_list(val: List[object]) -> bool:
    """Determines whether all objects in the list are strings"""
    return all(isinstance(x, str) for x in val)

>   def func1(val: List[object]):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  def func1(val: List[object]) -> None:
```

      if is_str_list(val):

>           reveal_type(val)  # List[object]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          reveal_type(val)  # Reveals List[object]
```

>           print(" ".join(val)) # Error: invalid type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          print(" ".join(val)) # Error: incompatible type
```

The same example with ``TypeGuard``:

.. code-block:: python

  from typing import List

>   from typing import TypeGuard  # use `typing_extensions` for `python<3.10`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from typing import TypeGuard  # use `typing_extensions` for Python 3.9 and below
```

  def is_str_list(val: List[object]) -> TypeGuard[List[str]]:
      """Determines whether all objects in the list are strings"""
      return all(isinstance(x, str) for x in val)

>   def func1(val: List[object]):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  def func1(val: List[object]) -> None:
```

      if is_str_list(val):
          reveal_type(val)  # List[str]
          print(" ".join(val)) # ok

How does it work? ``TypeGuard`` narrows the first function argument (``val``)
to the type specified as the first type parameter (``List[str]``).

.. note::

  Narrowing is
  `not strict <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0647/#enforcing-strict-narrowing>`_.
  For example, you can narrow ``str`` to ``int``:

  .. code-block:: python

    def f(value: str) -> TypeGuard[int]:
        return True

>   It was noted that without enforcing strict narrowing,
>   it would be possible to break type safety.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Note: since strict narrowing is not enforced, it's easy
  to break type safety.
```

  and will not write their type guard functions in a way
  that will undermine type safety or produce nonsensical results.

Generic TypeGuards
------------------

``TypeGuard`` can also work with generic types:

.. code-block:: python

  from typing import Tuple, TypeVar
  from typing import TypeGuard  # use `typing_extensions` for `python<3.10`

  _T = TypeVar("_T")

  def is_two_element_tuple(val: Tuple[_T, ...]) -> TypeGuard[Tuple[_T, _T]]:
      return len(val) == 2

  def func(names: Tuple[str, ...]):
      if is_two_element_tuple(names):
          reveal_type(names)  # Tuple[str, str]
      else:
          reveal_type(names)  # Tuple[str, ...]

Typeguards with parameters
--------------------------

Type guard functions can accept extra arguments:

.. code-block:: python

  from typing import Type, Set, TypeVar
  from typing import TypeGuard  # use `typing_extensions` for `python<3.10`

  _T = TypeVar("_T")

  def is_set_of(val: Set[Any], type: Type[_T]) -> TypeGuard[Set[_T]]:
      return all(isinstance(x, type) for x in val)

  items: Set[Any]
  if is_set_of(items, str):
      reveal_type(items)  # Set[str]

TypeGuards as methods
---------------------

> Method can also serve as the ``TypeGuard``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 A method can also serve as the ``TypeGuard``:
```

.. code-block:: python

  class StrValidator:
      def is_valid(self, instance: object) -> TypeGuard[str]:
          return isinstance(instance, str)

>   def func(to_validate: object):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  def func(to_validate: object) -> None:
```
